In the previous step we installed the dependency for spring cloud sleuth in currency calculations service
The currency exchange service and also on the API Gateway we saw that and unique ID was being assigned
to each request.
And I can use that I.D. to trace the request across the logs of these multiple services.
However the challenge we face is if you want to place that request then you have to go and check the
logs of the individual applications.
One of the solutions to this problem is something called a centralized log.
What we would need to do is to centralize all the log from all the Micro services.
So we have to collect currency calculation servies we had the currency exchange service.
We have the API Gateway we have the limits service all the log from that if there is a way that
we can centralize it we can bring it to one central location then we can search through that using the
ID which was assigned by spring cloud sleuth.
And at one place we would be able to search and find out what has happened with the specific request
which all the micro services it went through which all components were involved in handling that request.
And if I'm trying to debug a problem it would give me a consolidated big picture overview of what is
happening with a specific request.
There are actually a wide variety of solutions for centralized logging.
There are things like the haystack which is the elastics search logs stash and key Abana where all the
log from these micro services is consolidated at one place and using elastics search.
We would be able to search through all the logs in this course.
We would use something called zipkin distributed tracing server to consolidate to get a consolidated view of
what is happening across all the Micro services.
We will get all the log messages from the individual Micro services to go to this zipkin distributed
tracing server and after that we would use the UI which is provided by zipkin to look at what happened
for a specific request.
Now the question is how do I get the log messages from the currency calculation service to this zipkin distributed
tracing server.
What we'll do is we will use a MQ.
We will use rabbitMQ.
Whenever there is a log message the micro service would put it on the queue and zipkin distributed tracing
server would be picking it up from the queue.
So all that Micro services will put the log messages on the rabbitMQ.
And zipkin distributed tracing server would be listening on it and will be pulling out the log messages from
the MQ.
Typically this zipkin distributed tracing server is connected to a database.
But as far as our examples are concerned we would use in memory database so we would have all the log
messages in memory and we would have zipkin search through them and give us a big picture of what's happening
with the request.
So at the high level this is what would happen.
When I fire a request.
The request would hit multiple micro services right.
For example if I'm calling the currency calculation service the currency calculation service in turn
would invoke the currency exchange service and what would happen is the API gateway would be intercepting
that.
So the request would go through the currency calculation service the API gateway gateway and the currency exchange
service the spring cloud sleuth.
We'll be assigning a unique ID for the request which I can use it to trace the request across multiple
applications or multiple components all the micro services would put all their long messages on the queue
as well into rabbitMQ and I would be able to track them on the zipkin distributed tracing server.
In the next step we would look at what is involved in installing rabbitMQ.
Before we would start with installing zipkin distributed tracing server until then bye bye.